# Purpose
Modern cyber-physical systems (CPSs) use the internet of things (IoT) to collect and exchange data efficiently, monitor device/sensor level interaction effectively, and adopt new standards effortlessly. Machine learning (ML) algorithms are growingly used in the controllers of these IoT-enabled CPSs for pattern identification, state estimation, prediction, and anomaly detection. However, sophisticated adversaries can launch various attacks on the communication network and the hardware/firmware to introduce corrupted sensor measurements to manipulate the ML-based CPSs and create critical physical hazards. Hence, pre-deployment analysis of the threat space of a CPS is essential to understand the system's strength and identify the most critical resources to protect. However, existing studies have not yet proposed any verifiable solution for the threat analysis of ML-based CPSs. This paper presents a novel threat analysis framework that uses efficient mechanisms to extract constraints from ML-based decision models and perform a formal threat analysis to identify potential false data injection (FDI) attack paths and corresponding effects on an IoT-enabled ML-based CPS. Our framework can provide us with all possible attack vectors, each representing a set of sensor measurements to be altered for a CPS given a specific set of attack attributes. The attack vectors enable us to assess the system's resiliency, thus providing the insight to enhance the robustness of the model. We consider the internet of medical things (IoMT)-enabled safety-critical CPS, smart healthcare system (SHS), as the reference case and validate our framework on a real SHS dataset, proving our framework's success in revealing feasible FDI attack paths. The results from our evaluation using synthetic and real SHS datasets also affirm the tool's efficacy in threat analysis of ML-based CPSs.
